## Peer-graded Assignment: Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
This repository was created for the peer-graded assignment of the following coursera course: 

> Getting And Cleaning Data, 
> Data Science Specialization, 
> by Johns Hopkins University, 


### This respository includes following items:

- 'README.md':This file explains the purpose and the contents of the repository and the content of each file.

- 'run_analysis.R': The complete R scripts used to download and tidy up the data and generate the text file.

- 'CodeBook.md': This file includes data to indicate all the variables and summaries calculated, along with units, and any other relevant information.

- 'tidydataset': The tidy dataset generated by R from the script 'run_analysis.txt', this dataset contains the averages of selected features from the original 'Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset Version 1.0'.


### About the R script, run_analysis.R:
1. Check the working directory for the datasets and download them if not present.
2. Load training and test dataset as well as features info into R environment.
3. Loads the activity and subject info, and merges them with the training and test dataset.
4. Select columns which include mean or standard deviation in their names. 
5. Calculate the mean based on unique activity/subject pairs and generate a tidy dataset.
6. Export the tidy dataset into a txt file named 'tidydataset.txt'.


License:
========
Use of this dataset in publications must be acknowledged by referencing the following publication [1] 

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.
